Anyone who read my dairy entries should keep in mind that I am under heavy surveillance, both digital and physical. Only then you might understand why some of the things are not right.

And yes, it is including what I am writing right now, even before I put it online. I can only hope this and other entries can reach some "real persons".

Some things in the entries might be hard to be hard to understood why they are recorded. Let's just say they are relevant in a subtler way. But it doesn't mean everything is recorded.

The first entry months ago was written out of fear of being framed, the fear is heightened once again. A difference is that it was morely likely to affect a lot of people, it is more personal now.


I often use the word harassment for simplicity, but actually there are more. For example, the surveillance and discriminated treatment.

Before writing what happened recently, here are some accusations that might be used to discredit me or to justify what they have been doing:
Mental illness:
It was cited the first time I said there was something wrong months ago.
Violent:
I exercise daily for quite some years now. And I have done more since among all things there were subtle attempts of physical intimidations. The very first one, without surprise, came from a "social worker".
Nonsociable:
I have mentioned before, I was met with hostility since the very beginning, and every time I tried to be amicable, it was used to further the aggressions. It also makes me sick that how the "How are you", "Is everything OK", "Is something good" come after how I am treated. On some rare occasions when things seemed quiter, I actually responded OK, but that only earned me disrespectful responses or resumed harassments.
Defensive or disrepectful:
Along with nonsociable, it is just absurd to expect otherwise from someone you disrepected and harassed. But they don't seem to have problem talking as if it is the other way around.
Not working:
I was given the card that allows working just last week on 12 Jan, 2023 (the card itself reads Pazymejimas isduotas 2023-01-05). Suggestion of working illegally started months before though. Not working was also mentioned the same day I received the card, when I didn't tell anyone about it.
Writing and putting these online:
Like I mentioned before, my privacy is long gone. They enjoyed a lot putting surveillance on me, sharing my information including activities and using them to faciliate the harassments and whatnot. I don't see how writing about my experience is wrong, escpecially compared to what they are doing.

By the way, I won't expect things to be normal when I look for and go to work. The other aspects are the same as or even furthered form what happened in Hong Kong, there is no reason to believe job or anything else to be different.



16 Jan, 2023
I was told by social workers to go to see someone from EUAA (European Union Agency of Asylum). I thought they said doctor at first because I was shown on a phone the translation of "vulnerability". Later I told one of the social workers I didn't want to go. She said I could just say I don't want it and leave once I was there, but insisted that I should go. I asked why and who the person I was going to see was. It was then I was told someone from EUAA asked to see me and that's for "my future". I agreed to go at the end.

The meeting took place at the building where the doctors are. No people was in the room and I was told to wait in the hallway. Two people came later, the person asked to see me and an interpreter. I asked if I could have their identities and record the conversation. They said I could have the identity of the female who asked to see me only. No recording and the interpreter must present while not revealing his identity. She also said something like they were not going to put what we said onto social media, which is what I do since a day I felt that I might be framed for something (although it wasn't the first time). I mentioned my information, what I say, what I do are shared by many people. She didn't seem interested.

I was asked to sign a paper when we entered a room. It was about establishing a case of special vulnerability. I asked why they would come up with such an idea. That female I met for the first time said she was there to see who in the camp has vulnerability and most people in the camp had signed the same thing. I said it had happened before that I was said to have mental problem when I said there was something wrong. Just like before, I think it would discredit my other claims, and although I feel bad, but that's because I am experiencing something bad, I don't think that's a vulnerability they were talking about, thus refused. She said we could have talked outside the room if I was not signing, but the conversation continued in the room as I asked if she asks to see someone just to establish that kind of case and then she asked other questions.

At some point she said that she didn't want my story when I mentioned that they were not letting me record the conversation.

There were some things strange about the meeting, not only the conversation. I have to say that I am afraid some kind of stories would be made up somewhere. By strange I mean extra strange. Things have been strange and rarely could I find sincerity. So rare that you would wonder in your heart that if they are real persons.

It is the same feeling I had when I was still in Hong Kong. I told myself maybe I was thinking too much and dragged for months before leaving, with not enough money being another problem. I am afraid that, just like what happened in Hong Kong, my fear would be proven to be well founded.

And just like what happened in Hong Kong, among many things that I would call petty and stupid, the problem being brewed might not be as petty.

I am afraid it is not going to end well.





Older entries that was not recorded.

20 Nov, 2022
The cat was trapped out the windows of my room and another room again. It was trembling when I let it in. It willingly rest on the clothes I put on the floor for it and allowed me to cover it with the clothes and my hands. This particular cat normally didn't like it much and would move to another spot.
About the cat being trapped:
https://matters.news/@lochardpatri/345312-不思議な猫-bafyreicva6etdcrj7xlpg2t6cfotewooazqb4ykwtc7hxhy4cqnsgz6bmi
https://matters.news/@lochardpatri/347118-難民日記-17-bafyreibx7tnfw5kpgjjhfe53ovzpyehckaxt56rmejv4dydw4l3sjx6u4y


24 Nov, 2022
There was blood in the hallway, in the kitchen and outside the window of the kitchen. The cat the repeated got trapped disappeared since this day. I asked much later, and a social worker said that someone took it home. I can only hope that's true.

Another cat appeared very weak with much more tears than usual from mostly one of its eyes. It had problem eating even very small pieces of food, drank very little. It rested for more than a day with few motions although woked up once for food. It returned to rest immediately after that meal on 25 Nov, 2022 when it had rested for more than half a day already. I went to a veterinarian clinic hoping for at least some advices. It was closed, the person in the pet product shop next door was unwilling to talk and said she didn't speak English, I asked someone else and was told that the note on the door said "work from 18:00". It was strange but I had to try since the cat looked very weak. I asked for permission to bring that cat to the vet after 18:00. The clinic was closed.



Around 4 Dec, 2022
I was allowed to move to another room shortly after the disappearance of the cat and the abnormal weakness of another. (I sometimes slept outside the room because my roomate didn't want the window open. And the air was too bad.) A social worker came into my room and asked if I didn't feel cold. I replied that I did, but I needed fresh air which I had repeated numerous time before, and I thought it was the reason they let me moved. The window of my room was sealed by a worker the same day afternoon.



16 Dec, 2022
I was blocked a few steps at end of a path by another refugee. He signalled me to move into the deep snow to let him pass by pointing. I refused, stating that he was just about 5 steps from that end. He insisted with some angry grumble, not sure if he was speaking anything in some language. I returned signals of letting him pass by leaning on the wall to make space for him to pass. He insisted that I should move into the snow. I refused. He finally took those few steps back and ended the farce, or not. He went to talk to an officer, pointing at me.

I was told to move to the ground floor later the same day. The room was decided by social workers. The person in the morning happened to live in the room opposited mine. The officer told me to move agreed and had an worker opened the window for me.



17 Dec, 2022
The broom in my room disappeared, found it in the room of the person who wanted to make me go into deep snow. He came to open my door, grumble  and leave once in a while for a few days.

Something exploded with a pop sound near the window. Judging from the water it was probably exploded on a bench placed close to the window. I told some time to see what was that noticed just that the water was not clear nor slightly white like the water the workers released from radiators before, the radiator was not leaking, and there were footprints of human outside the windows.
I went to told the officers. Some social worker came and claimed that the radiator exploded due to the cold because I opened the window a fellow refugee tried to make me believe it was the radiator too. I pointed out that the radiator was not leaking, the water on the surface of the radiator indicated that the water was from the directiion of the chair, and there were human footprints outside the windows. An officer looked at the footprint and seemed to agree it looked strange, but he didn't speak Engish and left after talking to the others. The others simply ignored it and insisted it was the radiator.
Later the workers came to seal the window, I tried to tell them the circumstances but one of them just said they don't speak English and insisted it was be the radiator and urged me to leave the room. I wanted to stop them from sealing the window and went to the officers again. No one spoke English there. The window was sealed when I returned to the room and the radiator was leaking. It was so ridiculous.
I found the officer who agreed to open the window for me later that night and told him what happened. He told me to wait for him at room, later he told me the radiator start leaking only after the workers came because they closed the window and the ice inside melted. It did't make sense at all since I left the room just briefly. He kept talking about "friendly" in the conversation, actually he also used the word when he told me to move to the ground floor. I said I had always been friendly except to those who wants to bully me. I asked what they wanted when they had already deprived my rights as an asylum seeker. He insisted it must be the radiator and the radiator changed from not leaking to leaking because there was ice melthing inside.



18 Dec, 2022
I pointed out to another officer that I had been in the room for hours and the room was warmer than it was earlier, so the timing and the direction of the water both indicated it couldn't be the radiator, plus there were the footprints. The officer told me maybe I could search for a sense. Something resembled "google it" I heard from another officer before, which I am quite sure that I had done nothing to deserve the sacarism. Chance is that it had something to do with the people from Hong Kong, not that it would then be reasonable. Things happen here could be linked to Hong Kong in more than one way. He said he was 100% sure that the footprints were made by cats playing.

Some social workers came in the morning and said "Toilet paper? Soup? Shampoo?" I said I don't need them. Those and some others things used to be distributed regularly, not for me though. Seems that for me it had become a special offer. I asked if there were long boots. They said no.

The windows could still be opened slightly and I opened it at night when I slept. The workers came to add extra screws to make sure it cloudn't be opened at all. I went outside the center when the workers was removing the exterior of the radiator. One of the social workers was smirking inside the front door counter as the officer registered my outing.



24 Dec, 2022
A refugee offered some snacks at night. I thanked and refused.



26 Dec, 2022
I didn't have an active sim card for a while and started a new one this night.



27 Dec, 2022
A few days ago, another cat close to me had been trapped outside windows above mine on the second floor. It was trapped again this early morning. I told the officers, they said it had to wait until breakfast when the people get up. I said the light of the room was on when I saw it and it would take only seconds to let the cat in. They said it was not cold enough to kill the cat. I said there was still no reason to have the cat trapped in that narraw space where it couldn't curl up and rest for hours. They said "it's just an animal, like any other." I wonder what was that supposed to mean. I asked them to be reasonable, just a few seconds and the cat didn't have to be trapped for hours. They refused. Someone opened the window and moved the cat in later when I took photos of it.

A few others and I were moved back to the Pabrade centre in the morning. I was glad to see the trapped cat came to my room before I left, meaning it wasn't trapped, at least for that the time being. The social worker who smirked the other day was there at the vehicles. The card for leaving the Centre was taken as we changed centre.

I started taking photos of what I sign after many bad things happened. It goes back further than this but here is an entry about a similar issue.
https://github.com/locharp/asylum_dairy/blob/main/en/asylum_dairy_14.txt

During the examination when we arrived Pabrade, I saw that there were some papers to sign. I asked if I could read them before they check me, so that they don't have to wait for me to read when it's my turn. One officer spoke English but she said she didn't understand what I said. They showed impatience when I read the papers when it was my turn. I repeated a few times that they could proceed with the others when I read. They still watched me reading. I asked to take photos of the papers and read later and signed. I told them I had been in the Center before and maybe there were records about my belongings which includes 2 photos form my homeland and 2 I bought after departure, hoping to get rid of the surveillance. They said there is no record. They also recorded my sim card number.

Later on the same day, the officers came to the quarantine room and said that a paper was not correct and asked me to sign another one which meant that they didn't take anything from me. Like the other papers I took signed and took photo so that I could read later. The first one was "Rasta, nepaimta" with a list of my 2 laptops and 2 harddisks which I brought and hoped that there would be evidences of the surveillance put on me in Hong Kong. Of course it is a joke here now. The second one was "nieko nerasta ir nepaimta" without the list. The understanding I had at that time was "logged, not taken" vs "nothing logged and taken". Both papers meant nothing was taken, the difference was that the record of my belongings removed. I asked the officers why and wanted to have the them recorded again. They still repeated a few times it was changed because they returned my things to me and refused.

When I did just a bit of exercise in the quarantine room. My two roommates reacted as if it was somehing very special. One of they suggested doing push up with closed fists to strengten them.



28 Dec, 2022. My birthday
We was told to move to another building. The containers for refugees months ago were removed. The card for leaving this centre was given to me at night.

I started writing an application this day and submitted on the next. I requested for written answers about changes of my legel status along with material and cash allowance. And that I want things such as the one the day before to be recorded more accurately and provided the list mentioned above.

I also checked google map for embassies of other countries this night.



29 Dec, 2022
If I remember correctly, I was offered to choose a scarf and a pair of gloves this morning before I had the application submitted. I paused when I was told to sign on a list. The social worker said it was information of other people. I said I was just thinking then I left without taking anything.

A few days later I was told to get hygien products. I told the social worker I still have some and refused. I was used to live with minimal supplies.



4 Jan, 2023
I went to several embassies to ask for help.
https://github.com/locharp/asylum_dairy/blob/main/en/asylum_dairy_20.md
7 Jan, 2023
I was told there is Wifi.
https://github.com/locharp/asylum_dairy/blob/main/en/asylum_dairy_21.txt



12 Jan, 2023
I was told to go to the office (front door counter).
I was told that there were a lot of words on my application, but they did not connect, and was asked what I wanted. I said I want the record to be changed back to the original version. I was told that the examination record changed because nothing was taken form me again and again. And I repeated again and again that it was written on both papers. The difference was the other half of the sentence and the removal of the list. They repeated again and again that I had my things back so what the problem was. And asked how I could say what was correct when I couldn't read Lithuanian. I said I want the list written on the first paper to be on the record and told them the meaning of the sentence I got from translator. After lengthy repetitions between which a card said to allow working was given to me, they said the other parts of thegot sentences actually meant "found" and "nothing found", not "logged" and "nothing logged". I asked to have it written on the written response. I was told that there is only one record (they, including the officers the day before, use the word protocol), the second one. The first one was nothing because there was no record number on it. I was asked to show the photo of the first paper. So that's to say they still do not admit that they are monitoring me and can see whatever that's on my devices.
I returned with my phone and showed an officer the photo. He looked at it briefly and repeated that there was no number, so it was nothing, it was torn. I said the number probably got written only when it was put on the system, I want it to be acknowledged and I want a written answer. He said it wouldn't change anything. I wanted to give him 2 examples to explain why I want written response. He said he didn't need my example and ask if I was kidding him, moved his face closer to me. I said I was serious. He moved into the center. I followed. He told me to write applications for written answers. I said I have written one already. The application we were talking about was a request for written answer. The same repeated a few times between which I mentioned the example that some officer said that my asylum application was not registered in the past. He said at last that he would write a written answer, but it was not clear if he still meant I have to write another application for it.

Before I found the officer to show him the photo, I was told to call an inspector to ask about my status. I called and was told to wait, it was hanged up. I called again and asked if her knew where I was. She said she knew. 2 females came, one was the one I was to call, another one said she was also an inspector and they work together. I was told that I am asylum seeker, the card given to me is a document for that. She then asked if I was given the card. I said yes. She asked to see the card. I gave it to her. She repeated that I am an asylum seeker. They also showed me a document as a proof of my asylum status. I asked if there were any changes. They said no but I should ask the Migration for details. I said the date was not right. She showed me another one. I asked why there were 2. The other inspector said the nationality changed. I asked why. She said they didn't know, I have to ask the Migration, and told me to write them a letter and they will write the Migration. I asked if I could get compensated (might be a wrong word) if I travel to the Migration and ask them myself because I have very little money left. The inspector I was told to call said I was given an allowance (yes I was, a few days before that). I said like 2 Euros. She said I could use it. I said it wasn't even enough for a single trip. They said it was not their problem. I asked for a written answer for what they told me. What they couldn't told me just stated that they couldn't told me on the written response. They told me to write the Mirgration. I said that's another thing. I want them to write what they told me on a paper. They refused. They started to leave. I followed and repeated a few times. They refused and left. They seemed to have said that they were not to respond to my application.



I am educated here (though I should have learned long ago if I didn't care others feelings) that only solid evidences would provide security. What happened on 4 Jan, 2023 proved it again. The first paper was disregarded proved it again. Same for reading before signing. Consideration will not be returned with consideration. I mean this is probably true in any case. In my current situation, it is out of the question.
