I ask for a place where I will be treated fairly as an equal human being.

I can carry my own weight if I am treated fairly. I believe I have more than that to offer but to say the least, I can carry my own weight if I am treated fairly. I ask for a place where humans are regraded as humans.

For partial details, please read my dairy entries or ask.
https://github.com/HashedKode/book/blob/main/21.txt
https://github.com/locharp/asylum_dairy
My dairy entries is kind of detailed on what they are recording, but it might be tedious to read. Here is an attempt to conclude it in short.

I found myself under both digital and physical serveillance, my home invaded when I was away, people and facilities, including workplaces were informed about me, treated me in a special way, most of the time it meant something bad, insincere to say the least.

I saved up some money to leave the city. I went to the Embassy of Ukraine in Warsaw to ask to join the International Legion, knowning full well it was highly likely that I wouldn't come out alive. I was given an email address from which I got no reply.

I went to Lithuania and immediately seeked asylum since I felt the troubles followed me to Poland. Unfortunately it is the same here in Lithuania.

What I am experiencing include but not limited to:
1. High degree of surveillance that I would call it a human right violation
2. Privacy violation by surveillance and information sharing
3. Mimic, or simply repeat since they might be complicting all along, of the troubles I had: acting strange around my food, harassing me even in toilet and shower.
4. Strange things that have me worry I would be framed for something or stories would be made up else where.
5. Constantly lie and bullshit to or around me, including suggestions of working illegally or leaving the country illegally. I am sure they will not admit or take responsibilities if I am influented to do anything.
6. They are hellbent on shaping things including my behaviors with control and manipulation.
7. I might be treated better here or worse there, but never with sincerity as an equal human being. Eg, increased harassments when they are not pleased, more food after harassments or abuses of power.
7. I would go so far as to said that I am treated as a human subject without my consent for authoritarianism, or an animal or a toy.

They are not going to stop. Even now they are still doing the same.

I do not know what kind of mindset is behind all these. Like kids who have just discovered some cheat code of a game that they couldn't help abusing it? Or simply hellbent on claiming some petty victory that they are in control, not just of a situation but of other human beings?
